---
keywords: fastai
description: Variable names and data types
title: 3.1 Variables and Assignment Video 1
toc: true 
badges: true
comments: true
categories: [jupyter]
nb_path: _notebooks/2022-11-21-3.1vid1.ipynb
layout: notebook
---

<!--
#################################################
### THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! ###
#################################################
# file to edit: _notebooks/2022-11-21-3.1vid1.ipynb
-->

<div class="container" id="notebook-container">
        
<div class="cell border-box-sizing text_cell rendered"><div class="inner_cell">
<div class="text_cell_render border-box-sizing rendered_html">
<h3 id="Variables-and-Assignments">Variables and Assignments<a class="anchor-link" href="#Variables-and-Assignments"> </a></h3><h1 id="Essential-Knowledge:">Essential Knowledge:<a class="anchor-link" href="#Essential-Knowledge:"> </a></h1><ul>
<li>A variable is an abstraction inside a program that can hold a value. Each variable has associated data storage that represents one value at a time, but that value can be a list or other collection that in turn contains multiple values.</li>
<li>Using meaningful variable names helps with readability of program code and understanding of what values are represented by the variables.</li>
<li>Some programming languages provide types to represent data, which are referenced using variables. These types include numbers, Booleans, lists, and strings.</li>
<li>Some values are better suited to representation using one type of datum rather than another.</li>
</ul>
<h1 id="What-is-a-variable">What is a variable<a class="anchor-link" href="#What-is-a-variable"> </a></h1><ul>
<li>An abstraction inside a program that can hold a value</li>
</ul>
<h1 id="An-example-naming-variables">An example naming variables<a class="anchor-link" href="#An-example-naming-variables"> </a></h1><ul>
<li>You want to store the highest score you scored in a game. So, you want to call this variable highScore</li>
<li>You want to store a name, so you can call the variable firstName</li>
<li>It is also possible to store true or false in a variable. For example, the variable could be called isSunny, where true and false are stored in the variable.</li>
<li>phoneNumber could be a variable that stores phone numbers.</li>
<li>These examples are short and convenient as opposed to a long description</li>
<li>However, they give insight to the basic goal of the variable.</li>
<li>Spaces also cause a problem because it is not allowed</li>
<li>Dashes and numbers are also less ideal.</li>
</ul>
<h1 id="Data-Type-examples">Data Type examples<a class="anchor-link" href="#Data-Type-examples"> </a></h1><ul>
<li>highScore --&gt; an integer<ul>
<li>probably doing addition or subtraction, save it as an integer or numbers.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>firstName --&gt; text(or string)<ul>
<li>since a name is text, it should be saved as a string</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>isSunny --&gt; boolean<ul>
<li>only gives two options: true or false within variable</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>phoneNumber --&gt; text(string)<ul>
<li>no math involved just a string of numbers</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h1 id="Practice">Practice<a class="anchor-link" href="#Practice"> </a></h1><p>Question: What would be the best variable name and data type to store a user's age in a program?</p>
<ul>
<li>Answer: name: age       data type: integer</li>
</ul>
<p>Q: What would be the best variable name and data type to store the number of students in your class?</p>
<ul>
<li>A: name: numStudents        data type: integer to add and subtract</li>
</ul>
<p>Q: What would be the best variable name and data type to store the title of a movie?</p>
<ul>
<li>A: name: movieTitle      data type: text(or string)</li>
</ul>
<p>Q: What would be the best variable name and data type to store if someone's pet is a dog.
A: name: isDog      data type: boolean</p>

</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="cell border-box-sizing text_cell rendered"><div class="inner_cell">
<div class="text_cell_render border-box-sizing rendered_html">
<h1 id="Homework/Hacks">Homework/Hacks<a class="anchor-link" href="#Homework/Hacks"> </a></h1><p><strong>You want to store the number of apples in a shop. What is the best variable name and data type?</strong></p>
<ol>
<li>numApples, integer</li>
<li>apples, text</li>
<li>numApples, string</li>
<li>isApples, boolean</li>
</ol>
<details closed>
<summary>Click for the answer!</summary>
    1. Because the name is descriptive of what is stored. Also, the number of apples in the store can change so the integer lets you add a nd subtract to the number of apples.
</details><hr>
<p><strong>You are storing true or false in a variable that asks if the classroom is cold. What is the best variable name and data type?</strong></p>
<ol>
<li>weather, integer</li>
<li>weather, boolean</li>
<li>isCold, boolean</li>
<li>cold, string</li>
</ol>
<details closed>
<summary>Click for the answer!</summary>
3. Because this is a true or false question. It is either cold or not, so the variable name describes the circumstance, then the boolean data type specifies true or false.
</details><hr>
<p><strong>How do you store the ID numbers for the students in the classroom? Choose the best variable name and data type:</strong></p>
<ol>
<li>IDnumber, string</li>
<li>whatID, integer</li>
<li>IDnumberofthestudentsintheclassroom, boolean</li>
<li>IDnumberofthestudentsintheclassroom, integer</li>
</ol>
<details closed>
<summary>Click for the answer!</summary>
1. IDnumber because it is descriptive but not too long and innefective. it is also a string because it doesn't change and its a string of numbers. 
</details><hr>
<p><strong>Is itisRainingtodayinsandiego a better option than isRaining?</strong></p>
<ol>
<li>Yes</li>
<li>No</li>
</ol>
<details closed>
<summary>Click for the answer!</summary>
2. No, because it is too long and inefficient to use when trying to store variables.
</details><hr>
<p><strong>Which of the following types of data is best for a true or false question?</strong></p>
<ol>
<li>Boolean</li>
<li>String</li>
<li>Float</li>
<li>All of the above</li>
</ol>
<details closed>
<summary>Click for the answer!</summary>
1. A boolean data type allows a variable to store true and false. 
</details><hr>
<p><strong>What is the difference between an integer and string of numbers?</strong></p>
<ol>
<li>An integer is just a set data type while a string of numbers can be changed with addition and subtraction</li>
<li>An integer can be letters and numbers while a string is just numbers</li>
<li>An integer is just numbers while a string is just words</li>
<li>An integer can be changed with addition and subtraction and a string is a set number or string of letters.</li>
</ol>
<details closed>
<summary>Click for the answer!</summary>
    4. This is the only answer that has two true statements
</details>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
 

