---
toc: true
layout: post
description: Using lists as an abstraction to manage the complexity of a program. 
categories: [markdown]
title: 3.2 Daily Video 2 
---

# Lists
**Lists allow for data abstraction**
Variables like strings, numbers, characters, and more can be bundled together
- it could be empty from the start and you can add more variables as needed
If you set one list equal to another list, or transfer data from one list to another, the data will be completely replaced. 

# Big Ideas
1. Lists can store any types of elements. 
2. In all lists operations, if a list index is less than 1 or greater than the length of the list, an error message is made and the program will terminate. 
3. Data abstraction provides a separation between the abstract properties of a data type and the concrete details of its representation. 

---

# Homework/Hacks
Consider the following code segment:
- scores1 <- [89, 78, 92, 63, 95, 88]
- scores2 <- [92, 79, 97, 63]
- scores1 <- scores2

What are the contents of *scores1* after the code segment is executed?: 

1. [89, 78, 92, 63, 95, 88]
2. [89, 78, 92, 63, 95, 88, 92, 79, 97, 63]
3. [92, 79, 97, 63, 89, 78, 92, 63, 95, 88]
4. [92, 79, 97, 63]
    
<details closed>
<summary>Click for the answer!</summary>
    4. Because the data is not being appended from *scores2* into *scores1*. 
</details>


Consider the following code segment:
- listA <- "Sam", "Ann"
- listB <- "Jamal", "Tamara"
- listB <- listA
- listA <- listB

What are the contents of *listA* after the code segment is executed?

1. ["Sam", "Ann"]
2. ["Jamal", "Tamara"]
3. ["Sam", "Ann", "Jamal", "Tamara"]
4. ["Jamal", "Tamara", "Sam", "Ann"]

<details closed>
<summary>Click for the answer!</summary>
1. Because all of the data from listA "Sam" and "Ann" replace what is in listB. So if listB replaces what is in listA, "Sam" and "Ann" will still be the only data in that list. 
</details>

What is the length of this list?
["Red", "Orange", "Yellow", "Green", "Blue", "Purple" ]

Which of the following types of data can be stored in a list?
1. Boolean
2. String
3. Float
4. All of the above
<details closed>
<summary>Click for the answer!</summary>
4. Any type of data can be stored within a list. A list can contain a mix of types of data. 
</details>
