---
toc: true
layout: post
description: All the vocab from different sections
categories: [markdown]
title: Lesson Vocab
---

### 3.1-3.2

- Variable: An abstraction inside a program that can hold a value
- list: a sequence of several variables grouped together
- variable: a way of storing information in a computer program, which could later be changed, referenced, and used
- data types: a set of values and operations on those values
- abstract data types: a data type whose internal representation is hidden from the client
- client: a program that uses a data type
- objects: a structure that can take on a data-type value
- Applications programming interface (API): which is a list of constructors and instance methods or operations, used to specify the behavior of an abstract data type


### 3.3-3.4

- algorithm: finite set of instructions that accomplish a specific task, composed of sequencing, selection, and iteration.
- selection: a section of code is run only if a condition is met.
- iteration: repeating steps or instructions over and over again
- sequencing: outline or set of steps that we do and follow in order that they are given
- variable: you can store an actual value, the value of a variable in another variable, the result of an operation, or result of a procedural call
- String: a sequence of characters

### 3.5-3.7

- Boolean: binary variable with only two possible values, "true" or "false"
- Logical operators allow for boolean values to be evaluated. 
- Algorithm: Finite set of instructions that accomplish a specific task
- Flowchart: We can use flowcharts to help organize the process of conditional statements.
- Nested conditional: A conditional inside of a conditional

### 3.8 and 3.10

- Iteration: Repitition of a Process
- For Loop: FOR LOOP repeats a function for a set number of times; I is the number of times repeated
- While Loop: The while loop is used to repeat a section of code an unknown number of times until a specific condition is met
- Initialization: What sets the counter variable to a starting value. For example (var i = 0) represents an initial value of 0.
- Condition: Allows the computer to know whether or not to keep repeating the loop.
- increment/decrement: Modifies the counter variable after each repetition.
- Indexing / List Index: The position of an element in a list, starting from 0
append, remove, pop: Various methods, append adds an element to the end, remove removes at an index, and pop removes the last item.
- Elements [in a list]: An item in a list.
- Nesting: Having one data type or function inside another data type or function, such as lists or loops.
- array: Another name for a list, depends on the language

### 3.9 and 3.11

- Iteration: Repeating steps, or instructions over and over again. ( this could be also often called a loop )
- Selection: is a decision or question. At some point in an algorithm there may need to be a question because the algorithm has reached a step where one or more options are available.
- Algorithm: A process or set of rules to be followed in calculations or other problem solving operations, especially by a computer.
- Sequential Search: takes longer because each value in a list needs to be checked
- Binary Search: A lot more efficient and it will take the middle value and keep going out until the right answer is checked.

### 3.12 and 3.13

-  Procedure: is a named group of programming instructions that serves a purpose
- Parameter: are input values of a procedur
    - There are two types of procedures, one that returns a value or some type of data and on that just executes a block of statements
- Modularity - the practice of breaking a complex program into smaller, independent parts or modules that can be used and reused in different parts of the program

### 3.14 and 3.15

- Documentation: Text that explains the what, how, or why of your code.
- Libraries: A collection of prewritten code or procedures that coders can use to maximize their efficiency
- Application Programming Interface: A type of software through several computers are able to communicate information amongst eachother
- Syntax: In collegeboard psudo-code RANDOM(a, b) is used to generate a random integer value in the range from a to b. For example if RANDOM(1, 5) is written 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 have the same chance to show up. In Python the random library can be imported and the min and max ranges can be set to any integer.
- randint: A general way to to write this is randint(start, stop) where start is the minimum value, stop is the maximum value. And this allows you to generate a random integer from a set range and this can help you create code for things like a coin-flip, dice roll, and anything else which needs an inclusive range.
- randrange: In general randrange can be written like randrange(start, stop, step) where start is the minimum value, stop is the maximum value (like the randint function), and step is the incriment the values can be and its default value is 1. If start = 0 and step = 5 all the values that can by outputed are 0 and multiples of 5. And if start = 2 and step = 3 the output would be 2 and a multiple of 3 plus 2.

### 3.16/17/18

- Simulation: a way to simulate real-world environments to test safety or logistics. It's important to use random numbers, consider biases, and consider if a simulation is the best solution.
- Rroblem: is a description of a task that may or may not be able to be solved through the use of an algorithm. An instance of a problem includes a specific input. One example of this type of problem is a sorting problem.
- Decision problem: is a problem with a binary answer (yes or no). An optimization problem is a problem with the objective of finding the BEST solution amongst many possibilities to solve a problem.
- Algorithm's efficiency: is determined through formal or mathematical reasoning.
- Polynomial time describes any run time that does not increase faster than n^k which includes Constant time, Quadratic time, and other higher degree polynomials.
- Superpolynomial time describes any run time that does increase faster than n^k which includes Exponential time and factorial time
- undecidable problem	problems for which no algorithms can be built that can provide a correct yes or no answer or a solution
- decidable problem	problems for which algorthms could be written to solve/produce a correct output for all inputs.
- instance of a problem: one specific value is inputted
- optimization problem: Problem with the objective of finding the BEST solution amongst many possibilities to solve a problem
- constant Time: Will always take the same number of steps, no matter how large input it
- linear Time: The number of steps increases in direct proportion to the input size
- quadratic Time: The number of steps increase in proportion to the input size squared
- exponential Time: The number of steps increase in proportion to the input size squared
- reasonable Time: Algorithms with a polynomial efficiency or lower (constant, linear, square, cube, etc.)
- unreasonable Time: Algorithms with exponential or factorial efficiencies

### Other Vocab:

Bits:
- Bytes:  a unit of data that is eight binary digits long.
- Hexadecimal / Nibbles: In computing, a nibble is a four-bit aggregation, or half an octet. It is also known as half-byte or tetrade. In a networking or telecommunication context, the nibble is often called a semi-octet, quadbit, or quartet. A nibble has sixteen possible values.
Binary Numbers: 
- Unsigned Integer: In computer science, an integer is a datum of integral data type, a data type that represents some range of mathematical integers.
- Signed Integer: signed number representations are required to encode negative numbers in binary number systems.
- Floating Point: a positive or negative whole number with a decimal point.
Binary Data Abstractions:
- Boolean: Boolean variables can only represent the values true or false.
- ASCII: abbreviated from American Standard Code for Information Interchange, is a character encoding standard for electronic communication. ASCII codes represent text in computers, telecommunications equipment, and other devices.
- Unicode: is an information technology standard for the consistent encoding, representation, and handling of text expressed in most of the world's writing systems.
- RGB: an additive color mode which combines Red, Green and Blue light to create various colors.
Data Compression: 
- Lossy: data compression techniques in which some amount of data is lost.
- Lossless: a data compression algorithm that allows the original data to be perfectly reconstructed from the compressed data.

- Variables: An abstraction inside a program that can hold a value
- Data Types: a set of values and operations on those values
- Assignment Operators: assigns the value of its right-hand operand to a variable, a property, or an indexer element given by its left-hand operand.
Managing Complexity with Variables:  
- Lists: a sequence of several variables grouped together
- 2D Lists: 
A two-dimensional list can also be used to store objects, which is especially convenient for programming sketches that involve some sort of "grid" or "board.
- Dictionaries: A dictionary consists of a collection of key-value pairs. Each key-value pair maps the key to its associated value.
- Algorithms: inite set of instructions that accomplish a specific task, composed of sequencing, selection, and iteration.
- Sequence: the generic term for an ordered set.
- Selection: used to select a part of the program to be executed based on a condition.
- Iteration: an object that contains a countable number of values.
- Expressions: a combination of operators and operands that is interpreted to produce some other value. 
- Comparison Operators: can compare numbers or strings and perform evaluations.
- Truth Tables: A truth table has one column for each input variable (for example, p and q), and one final column showing all of the possible results of the logical operation that the table represents.
- Characters Strings: a series of characters represented by bits of code and organized into a single variable.
- Length: to find the length you use use the len() function.
- Concatenation: joining strings together end-to-end to create a new string
- Upper: The upper() method returns a string where all characters are in upper case.
- Lower: The lower() method returns a string where all characters are lower case.
- Traversing Strings: process every character in a string, usually from left end to right end. 
- It decides whether certain statements need to be executed or not. It checks for a given condition, if the condition is true, then the set of code present inside the ” if ” block will be executed otherwise not.
- Elif: elif is short for "else if" and is used when the first if statement isn't true, but you want to check for another condition.
Else conditionals:
- Nested Selection Statements: a query within a query, i.e. when you have a SELECT statement within the main SELECT.
- Python For: A for loop is used for iterating over a sequence (that is either a list, a tuple, a dictionary, a set, or a string).
- While loops with Range: use the range() method to define a range in a while loop
- Combining loops with conditionals to Break: Within the for loop, there is an if statement that presents the condition that if the variable number is equivalent to the integer 5, then the loop will break. 
- Procedural Abstraction: The name of the function becomes an abstraction that can be used as we reason through a complex program.
- Python Def procedures: A procedure allows us to group a block of code under a name, known as a procedure name
- Parameters: are input values of a procedur
    - There are two types of procedures, one that returns a value or some type of data and on that just executes a block of statements
- Return Values: the values that a function returns when it completes.